The manuscript presents a ML framework for recovering velocity-delay maps from reverberation mapping data. The topic is timely and the results demonstrate that ML methods can reconstruct transfer functions even in the presence of noise and incomplete sampling. The comparison with the traditional MEMEcho inversion is interesting and helps illustrate the potential of the method. However, some aspects listed below could be clarified or strengthened before publication.

1. Page 3: The training data assume a DRW continuum, and light curves are already detrended before being fed into the CNN. However, detrending itself can affect the inferred transfer function. The authors should discuss more on how sensitive the results are to the DRW assumption and detrending method.


RESPONSE: Agreed, this is an important point. Addressed with some expanded discssion on lines 752 - 758, as we saw this behavior in our more "physical" test. 

2. Page 3-4: The CNN is trained entirely on synthetic transfer functions drawn from several assumed basis models (rings, Gaussian, exponential decays, etc.). The authors should specify in more details the parameter range of each transfer function, and clearly discuss how well the chosen training distributions span the plausible space of BLR response functions.

RESPONSE: Tables 2 and 3 added to the Appendix show how our samples were chosen. In regards to how these distributions span the plausible space of BLR response functions, for the physical models we use we vary all relevant parameters that are varied when fitting these models in the literature, but of course there may be a variety of other possible models that may better fit the BLR that we do not account for in our training set, thus it is hard to quantify how much of the possible BLR transfer function space we are truly covering. We have added a sentence to this effect on lines 307 - 314). 
  
3. Page 4: The authors state that "all the resulting transfer functions are normalized, as we are asking the model to predict their shapes and not their intensities relative to each other." However, it is unclear how this assumption translates to real applications. In real reverberation mapping data, the transfer function is not inherently normalized and its absolute amplitude carries physical information about the response strength. If the model predicts only a normalized transfer function, how is this prediction mapped back to the true physical transfer function? Could this normalization introduce a bias when applying the model to real observational data?

RESPONSE: This is true, but here we chose to normalize to make the problem simpler as a first test. Simple geometric and kinematic models of the BLR only care about the shape of the transfer function and not its normalization, and since this is what we train the model on we output only corresponding normalized response strengths. In the future adding more detailed radiative transfer to the training set would allow us to make more informed predictions on the amplitude of the response and learn interesting properties about the emitting gas itself in addition to the geometry and kinematics that are constrained in this normalized approach. A sentence has been added to this effect around lines 290 - 300.

4. Page 4: Since many ML architectures could in principle be applied to this problem, the manuscript should more clearly articulate the specific advantages of the CNN architecture adopted in this work. For example, it would be helpful to explain why this architecture is particularly suitable for recovering velocity-delay maps, and how it compares conceptually with alternative approaches (e.g., fully connected networks, autoencoders, or other architectures). Expanding this discussion would help readers better understand the motivation for the chosen model design.

5. The manuscript contains many hyperparameters related to the model architecture and training procedure, but it is not clear which of these were fixed a priori and which were tuned during model development. Some of these details appear scattered throughout the text. I suggest that the authors summarize the key hyperparameters in a table, indicating their values and whether they were fixed or optimized. This would make the methodology easier to follow and improve the reproducibility of the work.

RESPONSE: We have added Table 1 in the appendix, which includes key details of the architecture and whether they were fixed a priori or tuned as a result of experimentation. A call out in the main text to this table has been added at lines 357 - 361.  

6. Page 7: For the 2D transfer functions, the adopted parameter ranges should be clearly specified. At present it is difficult to assess how representative the training set is of realistic BLR configurations without knowing the ranges of the underlying parameters used to generate the synthetic velocity-delay maps.

RESPONSE: We have added Tables 2 and 3 in the Appendix, which includes these parameter ranges for the 1D and 2D cases respectively (with the 2D table only showing what differs from the 1D case). We have added a reference to this table in the main text at lines 270 - 272.
  
7. The model performance is primarily quantified using the mean square error (MSE). While this provides a useful measure of overall reconstruction accuracy, MSE alone may not fully capture the physical fidelity of the recovered velocity-delay maps. For example, it may not reflect whether key structures (e.g., peak response locations, asymmetries, or velocity-dependent features) are correctly reproduced. I suggest the authors include additional evaluation metrics to more robustly assess the model performance. This could also provide further insight into the model behavior and improve interpretability.

RESPONSE: We agree that this is a useful point of discussion. We use MSE as the quantification metric because this is the loss function all of our models were trained with, thus to fully address this point would require retraining all of our models with different loss functions. This is a key goal of future work which we discuss in the text, but believe it is outside of the scope of this current paper given the computational and time expense involved. But we also agree that more quantitative measures can still be said about these existing predictions, and so we have performed additional analyses which we include in the appendix (Figures 12-15) comparing how our models recover the 1st and 2nd moments of the delay and velocity distributions in the 1D and 2D transfer functions. We believe this is a nice quantitative metric that addresses this point without expanding the scope of the paper significantly or requiring retraining of our model ensembles, but are happy to discuss further if the referee disagrees.  

8. While the comparison with MEMEcho is useful, I feel it relies a bit on a limited set of examples. If possible, the authors should provide quantitative comparisons across a larger set of simulated cases, so that it can be discussed clearly which regimes the CNN clearly outperforms or underperforms traditional inversion methods.

RESPONSE: It is true we have a limited set of examples to compare with MEMEcho, but this was an intentional choice for this paper as we wanted the focus to be on the introduction/proof of concept of this new method and not on MEMEcho. We agree that this is an interesting question but believe it to be outside the scope of this current work for a few reasons. First, while we have many synthetic transfer functions, in a sense it is not a "fair" comparison to run MEMEcho on all of them as it takes all of these synthetic transfer functions to train our CNN, thus we expect it to have a leg up. The 1D example in this paper was intentionally set aside at the very beginning of this work to be significantly different than anything else in the training set our CNNs saw, to represent a "single source" example inversion comparison test. It would be a challenge (and likely require the introduction of additional collaborators) to design a robust set of "test" sources that we could repeat this with both in 1D and 2D that isn't biased either towards any inversion method. Second, MEMEcho is computationally expensive to run, and it would take a long time (maybe weeks?) to produce inversions for everything in our test set which we use to calculate the statistics on our models. Third, there are other inversion methods other than MEMEcho, and while MEMEcho is the most widely used in the community (which is the reason we provide a simple comparison to it here) in the future it would be interesting to test all of the methods against each other and not just use MEMEcho, but this would again likely require expanded collaboration and careful designing of the test sources. We agree this is an interesting direction for future work and have expanded text in the discussion on lines XXX - XXX highlighting this point.    

9. The manuscript includes a blind test using simulated quasar spectra. Several practical issues for real observations remain unclear. For example, are there any additional preprocessing requirements for real RM datasets where we might see irregular cadence, heterogeneous uncertainties, etc? How robust is the method to other more observational complexities?

RESPONSE: This is an important point. The practical requirements as it stands in this paper are mainly that the observations must be de-trended properly (this is the leading order effect), but it is also true that our current training set handles including gaps/irregular cadences/observational uncertainties in a pretty simplistic manner. We have expanded on this in the discussion to highlight what needs to be done in the future to improve this method for application to real datasets. 

10. This link to my comment #7. Although the reconstructed velocity-delay maps recover the broad morphology of the ground truth, the more relevant issue is how accurately physically meaningful structures are localized in the velocity-delay plane. Even modest offsets in the position, extent, or boundary of the response may affect the inferred BLR geometry or kinematics. The authors should therefore investigate whether the model shows any systematic tendency to misplace or distort key features/parameters of the system.

RESPONSE: Thanks for raising this point, as it is important. As mentioned in response to point 7, we have tried to quantify this (instead of just qualitatively statements as there are currently) by calculating the distribution of first and second moments of our predictions relative to the ground truth for both our 1D and 2D maps. We believe this demonstrates the strengths and pitfalls of this method, and showcases where systematic tendencies exist. In doing this we find that this quantitatively backs up our previous qualitative descriptions, in that models appear to randomly (in velocity space) shift things up to a ~pixel left or right of the ground truth, and that it is difficult for our models to recover the longest delays (we have a systematic bias towards reporting shorter delays, especially as the mean delay increases). We have inserted discussion on this in the main text and introduced an expanded section addressing this point in the Appendix, with Figures 12-15 demonstrating the quantitative results of this test. 
